# Algorithm
## Goals
The goal of this horse race program is to simulate a horse racing event that allows users to input a random seed number and obtain different outcomes of the horse race. This program is written in C++, and it involves using a random number generator along with a seed number, utilizing different types of algorithms to get the horses' position, print the race track, as well as determining the winner of this race. At the end of the program, the horse that wins the race will be announced. **"Horse # wins!"**

First, the *print_Track()* function is a function that outputs the track of the horse and its position at a certain point. It takes the position of the horse as one of its parameters and is therefore assigned the "." signs in between that position to form a race track. Next, the *coin_flip()* function helps the program to generate an integer with value of either 1 or 0 in order to determine whether the horse should move 1 step forward or remain at the same position. Also, the *start_race()* function allows the program to start the race by calling the *coin_flip()* function for each horse using loops until one of the horses arrives at the endpoint of the track and therefore claims to be the winner of the race. Finally, the *main()* function prompts users to input a seed for the random number generator and also announces the winner of the horse race which indicates the end of the program.

## Input
The *main()*, *coin_flip()*, and *start_race()* functions do not require input, because the only variables needed for these functions to execute successfully is the track length, the horse's arrays, and the initial position of the horses. All of these variables are declared globally, with the track length as a global constant integer, the horse's arrays and initial position as global variables. Since these variables and constant can be accessed anywhere within the program file, we are not required to have them included as our parameters for the functions. For the *print_Track()* function instead, the horse character array, the position of the horse, and the horse number are taken as inputs for this function. Since we intend to print the track and the position of the horse with this function, we must know what horse array to deal with, the specific location of the horse in that track and the horse number that we are referring to, and so these parameters are necessary. Finally, we would also need to take input from the user for our seed number in order to put it in the *srand()* function and get a random number generator working.

## Output
For the *main()* function, the program is printing out a sentence to provide an instruction to the user to input a seed number. Also, the function outputs the winner of the race after getting that data from the *start_race()* function. The *coin_flip()* function does not output anything, but it returns the value of either 1 or 0 depending on the integer generated by the random number generator, which is very important in determining whether the horse should move forward or remain at its original position, and therefore affects the outcome of the race directly. The *start_race()* function is calling the *print_Track()* function in order to output the tracks of each horse every time when a while loop is running in order to observe the changes in position of the horses and determine how one of the horses arrive at the end point of the track and claim its victory. Also, it returns the horse number that wins the race back to the *main()* function. Finally, the *print_Track()* function outputs the tracks that has length 15, together with the horse's position in a formatted manner.

## Steps 
Firstly, the <iostream>, <cstdlib>, and <time.h> libraries are added using the correct syntax, and a global constant integer, **TrackLength**, is declared and initialized with a value of 15, since it is the length of the track. Besides that, 5 global character arrays are declared to store the race track for each horse, and 5 global integer variables to store the initial position of each of the horses. This will help me to access them easily in every function since they are declared globally. Next, I declare three functions used for this horse race program, the *print_Track()*, *coin_flip()*, and *start_race()* functions. 

After having everything declared, I started working on my *main()* function. I declared the integer **seed** and **winner** variables. Then, I printted out a short sentence prompting my user to enter a random seed for my random number generator, having that number stored in the **seed** variable and used for the *srand()* function. Next, I called the *start_race()* function and assigned the return value to the **winner** variable because it will determine the winner of the race after executing all the codes. Before I end the *main()* function, I printed a sentence announcing the winner of this horse race.

Then, I started on the *print_Track()* function by having the **horse character array**, **position** in integer, and **horse number** in character as its parameters. I first declared and initialized integer **j** to 0, since it is used to keep track of the element number of each horse character array before I assign anything to the array, and so j is incremented as I move along the elements in the character array. Then, I used a "for loop" to go through the character array from the start of the array to the point right before the position of the horse on the track, and assigned the "." signs to it as its track. Next, I assigned the horse number to the position of the horse on the track in the character array. After, I did another "for loop" that runs through the rest of the track up to a total length of 15 and assigned "." signs to the array as its track. Finally, I did another "for loop" to go through each element of the character array and output the elements as a complete track for a particular horse at a specific point.

After that, I proceeded to work on the *coin_flip()* function. I declared and assigned a random number with modulo 2 to integer **coin**. The reason I did modulo 2 of the random number is to get an integer value of either 1 or 0. Next, I used an **if statement** to check if the coin value is 1 or 0. If the value assigned to it is 1, then a value of 1 will be returned to the function that is calling it. Otherwise, the function will retun a value of 0 to another function that is calling it. 

Finally, the *start_race()* function is started by declaring an integer **winner**, as well as a boolean variable called **not_end** to indicate that none of the horses have reached the end of the track. This boolean variable is assigned to be **true** initially, and it will eventually become false if one of the horses arrive at the end of the race track. After, I did a "while loop" with a condition that the **not_end** is still true to get the horses moving on the track. Within the while loop, I used 5 "if loops" that calls the *coin_flip()* function for each horse to get a number (either 1 or 0) from the random number generator. If the value returned is one, I will increment the position of the horse with respect to its horse number, which means that the horse will move forward by one unit on the track. Then, I called the *print_Track()* function for each horse to print the race tracks out and observe how each of the horses behave in the horse race. This loop will continue on until either one of the horse arrives at position 15. Therefore, I did one "if loop" with four "else if" and one "else" statement that provides conditions when either one of the horses' position is equal to 15, then the **not_end** variable will become **false** and the function will return that horse number immediately after that, since the winner of the race is confirmed and so the program will exit with a valid return value back to the *main()* function.

The program was then compiled and ran to check for any errors. After finalizing the codes, I did a git add ., git commit -m, and a git push -u origin master to upload the .c file to GitHub, located in a directory that I have created. 

